AIM:
 Study of Bash shell, C shell and Bourne shell in Unix/Linux operating system.
THEORY:
BASH SHELL:
 Bash shell is a Unix shell and command language written to Brion Fox for 
GNU project as a free software replacement for the Bourne shell.
 Bash is a command processor, that typically sums in a text window, when 
the user types commands that cause actions. Bash can also read and execute 
commands from a file, called a script.
FEATURES:
 The Bash commands syntax is superset of Bourne shell command syntax.
 1.Bash can execute the vast majority at the Bourne shell scripts without 
modification. With the exception of Bourne shell scripts strumbling into fringe 
syntax, behaviour interpreted, differently in hash or attempting to run a system 
command matching a never bash built in etc… such as command line editing 
command history, the directly stack, the $RANDOM and $PPID variables and 
variables and POSIX command substitution syntax $(…).
 2.Bash’s syntax has many extensions lacking in Bourne shell.
 3.Bash can perform integer calculations without spacing external 
processor.
 4.Bash supports ‘here documents’ since version 205b bash can redirect 
standard input form a “here string” using ‘<<<’ operator.
C SHELL SCRIPTING:
 C shell was written by Bill Joy and they have syntax of C language. In a
C-shell we use different commands from Bash shell. For example, to initialize a 
variable, in Bourne shell, we simply give value by using the operator ‘:’ where as 
in C-shell we use either “SET” or “@” commands.
FEATURES:
1.Control structures (loop and conditional statements)
2.Variable assignment
3.Job control130
4.Customosable environment, some special characters !, < >, |, *
 Some of the built in variables are
 1.arg V: special variables to hold value of argument
 2.history: sets how many lines of history to remember
 3.term: contains the current terminal type
BOURNE SHELL:
 It is shell or command line interpreter for computer operating systems. It 
was default shell for Unix, most Unix like systems continue to have /bin/ch which 
will be the Bourne shell or a symbolic link or hard link.
 1.It was developed by Stephen resource
 2.It was also intected as a scripting language, and contains most of features that 
are most commonly considered to produce programs
 3.It is mainly invented to allow shell scripts to be used to filters
 4.To provide programmability including control
 5.Control over signal handling written scripts and over input/output file 
descriptions
 6.To provide environment mechanism
 7.It also supports input and output redirection and pipe lines.
 
