AIM:
Study of vi editor
Theory:
vi editor:
vi is an editor for linux,unix and other unix like operating system. vi stands for 
‘Virtual Instrument’ . It is a widely used default text editor for linux based 
operating systems and is shipped with virtually all versions of unix. It exclusively 
uses the keyboard and provides a very efficient interface for editing programs and 
scripts while working with vi editor, use usually came across two modes.
1.Command Mode:
This mode enables you to perform administration tasks such as saving the files, 
executing the commands, moving the cursor and pasting the lines or words as well 
as finding and replacing. In this mode, whatever you type is interpreted as a 
command.
2. Insert Mode: 
This mode enables you to insert text into the file. Everything that’s typed in the 
mode is interpreted as input and placed in a file. Usually the vi editor defaultly in 
command mode. We can change to insert mode by pressing ‘i’.
If we want to come out of insert mode then we use ESC key. It will change 
insert mode to command mode.

Commands used in vi editor:

1.Deleting:
1. Place cursor on character we want to delete.
2. Press dd to delete entire line. 
3. Press X key to delete a character under the cursor.
4. Press dw to delete a word.
2.Inserting: ‘i’ key is used to insert text.
1. Move the cursor to the position, we want to insert.
2. Press ‘i’ key, then it changes to insert mode.
3.Appending: Press ‘a’ to append the text.128
1. Move the cursor to position where you want to insert.
2. Press ‘a’ key, then it enters into append mode.
4.Selecting: ‘v’ key is used for selecting.
1. Move the cursor to position where you want to start selecting and press 
‘v’ and take to that position you want to select by using across marks.
2. If you want to write the select text in a file, then type ‘:’ text you get’<,> 
qtype ‘w’ filename.
5.Copy and paste:
1. ’y’ key is used to copy and ‘p’ to paste.
2. Move cursor to starting of your desired line and select text and then for 
Copying type ‘y’ and for pasting ‘p’.
6.Replace:
Type rx to replace the character at cursor ‘:x’, where ‘x’ is another 
characters.
1. Place cursor at position, where you want to replace characters.
2. Now press r and the character that you want to replace.
7.Finding or Searching:
1. Type ‘/’ followed by a phrase to search for that phrase.
2. When we search by using ‘/’ it points cursor to word that use specified
